>> Sreenivasan: ON THIS EDITION
FOR SUNDAY, APRIL 5:
EASTER SUNDAY, HEIGHTENED
SECURITY AT CHURCHES THROUGHOUT
KENYA FOLLOWING AL SHABAB'S
TERROR ATTACK ON CHRISTIAN
UNIVERSITY STUDENTS THERE.
A TOP OBAMA ADMINISTRATION
NEGOTIATOR INSISTS IRAN WILL NOT
BE ABLE TO CHEAT ON THE NUCLEAR
DEAL, DESPITE NEW WARNINGS FROM
THE ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER.
AND IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT,
THE NEWSHOUR'S JEFFREY BROWN
SITS DOWN WITH ELISABETH MOSS TO
TALK ABOUT HER PORTRAYAL OF
PEGGY ONMAD MENAND HER LATEST
ROLE IN THE HEIDI CHRONICLES ON
BROADWAY.
>> LUCKILY RIGHT NOW THERE SEEMS
TO BE A LITTLE BIT OF A
RESURGENCE OF FEMINISM.
>> Sreenivasan: NEXT ON PBS
NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
>>FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS
IN LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: GOOD EVENING.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
IT WAS A DAY OF CELEBRATION,
REFLECTION AND REMEMBRANCE IN
KENYA TODAY AS MILLIONS OF
CHRISTIANS THERE OBSERVED EASTER
JUST DAYS AFTER AL SHABAB
ISLAMIC EXTREMISTS TARGETED
CHRISTIAN STUDENTS AT A
UNIVERSITY AND KILLED MORE THAN
140 OF THEM.
THE NEWSHOUR'S WILLIAM BRANGHAM
HAS MORE.
>> THIS WAS THE SCENE OUTSIDE
CHURCHES IN THE CAPITAL CITY OF
NAIROBI TODAY, AS WORSHIPPERS
GATHERED TO ATTEND EASTER SUNDAY
MASS.
AND THIS WAS IN THE SCENE AT
CHURCHES IN GARISSA.
A CITY OF 120,000 PEOPLE CLOSER
TO THE BORDER OF SOMALIA, WHERE
MASKED GUNMEN FROM THE AL-QAEDA
AFFILIATED TERROR GROUP GUNNED
DOWN CHRISTIAN STUDENTS AND
SPARED MUSLIMS.
THE CATHOLIC BISHOP THERE SAID
TODAY EVERYONE IS STILL SHAKEN
BY THE ATTACKS, BUT ONE OF HIS
PARISHIONERS IN THIS
OVERWHELMINGLY CHRISTIAN COUNTRY
SAID SHE RELIED ON HER FAITH TO
EASE HER FEARS.
>> EASTER IS SYMBOLIC, IT IS
TIME THAT YOU REMEMBER HOW JESUS
WENT THROUGH AND HOW HE WAS
TEMPTED.
IT IS NOT THAT WE ARE SAFE BUT
WE TRUST IN HIM AND WE BELIEVE
HE IS GOING TO GIVE US
PROTECTION.
>> THERE WERE ALSO EMOTIONAL
REUNIONS LAST NIGHT AS SOME OF
THE STUDENTS WHO SURVIVED THE
ATTACK WERE REUNITED WITH LOVED
ONES.
>> AS MUCH AS I'M GRATEFUL, I
WISH MY FRIENDS WERE HERE.
I WISH THEY COULD SHARE THIS
MOMENT WITH ME.
>> BUT TODAY, OTHER GRIEVING
FAMILIES VISITED MORTUARIES TO
IDENTIFY THE BODIES OF THEIR
CHILDREN.
THE COUNTRY IS IN THE MIDDLE OF
A THREE-DAY MOURNING PERIOD.
KENYAN PRESIDENT HAS VOWED TO
RESPOND TO THE ATTACKS IN THE
SEVEREST WAY POSSIBLE.
TODAY, ONE OF THE SLAIN
ATTACKERS WAS IDENTIFIED AS A
FORMER LAW STUDENT.
HE WAS THE SON OF A GOVERNMENT
OFFICIAL WHO HAD GONE MISSING.
>> Sreenivasan: AT THE VATICAN
TODAY POPE FRANCIS CALLED
ATTENTION TO RECENT ATTACKS BY
ISLAMIC EXTREMISTS AGAINST
CHRISTIANS TO THE OWN IN
KENYAN BUT IRAQ AND SYRIA.
>> WE ASK JESUS, THE VICTOR OVER
DEATH, TO LIGHTEN THE SUFFERINGS
OF OUR MANY BROTHERS AND SISTERS
WHO ARE PERSECUTED FOR HIS NAME,
AND OF ALL THOSE WHO SUFFER
INJUSTICE AS A RESULT OF ONGOING
CONFLICTS AND VIOLENCE - AND
THERE ARE MANY.
>> Sreenivasan: THE DEBATE OVER
THE RECENTLY ANNOUNCED NUCLEAR
DEAL BETWEEN THE WORLD'S LEADING
POWERS AND IRAN PLAYED OUT AGAIN
TODAY ON THE SUNDAY TALK SHOWS.
DURING A SERIES OF APPEARANCES
THIS MORNING, ISRAELI PRIME
MINISTER BENJAMIN NETANYAHU
REITERATED HIS OPPOSITION TO THE
AGREEMENT WITH THE SHIITE MUSLIM
REGIME IN TEHRAN AND WARNED THAT
THE DEAL WILL PROMPT IRAN'S
SUNNI MUSLIM RIVALS IN THE
REGION TO PRODUCE THEIR OWN
NUCLEAR WEAPONS.
>> I THINK ONE OF THE
UNFORTUNATE, EVEN TRAGIC RESULTS
OF THIS DEAL, IF IT GOES
THROUGH, IS THAT IT WOULD SPARK
AN ARMS RACE AMONG THE SUNNI
STATES, A NUCLEAR ARMS RACE IN
THE MIDDLE EAST, AND THE MIDDLE
EAST CRISS-CROSSED WITH NUCLEAR
TRIP WIRES IS A NIGHTMARE FOR
THE WORLD.
>> Sreenivasan: ON CBS' "FACE
THE NATION," U.S. ENERGY
SECRETARY ERNEST MONIZ, HIMSELF
A NUCLEAR SCIENTIST AND A KEY
NEGOTIATOR WITH THE IRANIANS,
DEFENDED THE AGREEMENT, ARGUING
THAT INTERNATIONAL INSPECTORS
WILL HAVE SUCH BROAD ACCESS TO
IRAN'S FACILITIES THAT THERE'S
LITTLE CHANCE THE IRANIANS COULD
CHEAT AND DEVELOP A BOMB
SECRETLY.
>> WHAT THIS MEANS IS THEY WILL
HAVE ACCESS NOT JUST TO THE
DECLARED FACILITIES, BUT ALSO TO
UNDECLARED SITES, EVEN SITES
THAT DON'T HAVE NUCLEAR
MATERIALS.
ONCE WE ESTABLISH THE SUSPICION.
IRAN WILL HAVE A VERY SHORT TIME
TO GRANT ACCESS TO THAT FACILITY
OR WILL BE JUDGED OUT OF
COMPLIANCE.
>> Sreenivasan: ON THE SAME
BROADCAST, REPUBLICAN SENATOR
LINDSEY GRAHAM OF SOUTH CAROLINA
ARGUED THAT CONGRESS MUST HAVE
THE FINAL SAY ON WHATEVER DEAL
IS FINALLY HAMMERED OUT.
>> I THINK CONGRESS WILL REQUIRE
ANY DEAL NEGOTIATED WITH THE
IRANIANS TO COME TO THE CONGRESS
FOR OUR REVIEW BEFORE WE LIFT
CONGRESSIONAL SANCTIONS.
I SUPPORT THE IDEA OF GIVING
THEM TIME TO PUT THE DEAL
TOGETHER BUT I INSIST CONGRESS
REVIEW THE DEAL, DEBATE AND VOTE
ON IT BEFORE IT BECOMES FINAL.
>> Sreenivasan: IRAN STOCK
>> Sreenivasan: THE PROSPECT OF
AN END TO INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC
SANCTIONS AGAINST IRAN BECAUSE
OF THE NUCLEAR DEAL HAS SENT
STOCK PRICES SOARING THERE.
STOCKS ON THE TEHRAN STOCK
EXCHANGE WERE UP NEARLY 7% THIS
WEEKEND, THE FIRST TWO DAYS OF
TRADING FOLLOWING NEWS OF THE
TENTATIVE AGREEMENT.
THEY ARE NOW AT AN 18-MONTH
HIGH.
ALL THIS FROM THE OFFICIAL
IRANIAN NEWS AGENCY.
IRAN, OF COURSE, IS WORKING
ALONGSIDE THE UNITED STATES IN
THE FIGHT AGAINST ISIS.
DESPITE BEING OUSTED RECENTLY
FROM SADDAM HUSSEIN'S HOMETOWN
OF TIKRIT, THE EXTREMIST GROUP
MADE IMPORTANT NEW GAINS THIS
WEEKEND IN SYRIA, TAKING CONTROL
OF AN AREA NEAR DAMASCUS.
PART OF WHAT IS DRIVING ISIS'S
SUCCESS IS THE GROWING ROLE OF
FORMER OFFICIALS FROM SADDAM
HUSSEIN'S MILITARY, MEMBERS OF
THE ONCE DOMINANT BAATHIST
PARTY.
THEY ARE NOW PLAYING A KEY ROLE
WITHIN ISIS.
LIZ SLY OF THE WASHINGTON POST
WROTE ABOUT THIS AND JOINS US
NOW VIA SKYPE FROM BEIRUT
LEBANON.
FIRST OF ALL, HOW ARE THEY
INVOLVED?
WHERE ARE THEY INVOLVED?
AND WHAT ROLE DOES THEY PLAY
IS THIS.
>> WELL, THEY'RE INVOLVED IN
EVERY LEVEL OF THE SENIOR
LEADERSHIP, MOST OF THE
SENIOR LEADERSHIP ARE FARMER
BAATHISTS, OFFICERS IN THE
ARMY, SENIOR LEADERS OF
ISIS SERVED IN SADDAM
HUSSEIN ARMY THEY LEFT THEIR
JOBS AFTER THE
DEBA'ATHIFICATION IN 2003.
THEY WENT TO VARIOUS-- WITH
INSURGENCY, MAYBE THEY LEFT
THE INSURGENCY, MAYBE THEY
WENT BACK BUT IN THE PAST
FEW YEARS WE'VE SEEN AN
AGGRESSIVE ATTEMPT BY THE
CURRENT LEADER OF ISIS TO
RECRUIT THEM INTO THE LINKS
OF ISIS.
AND REALLY THE ORGANIZATION
IS RUN AND CONTROLLED BY
IRAQIS.
>> Sreenivasan: NOW THERE
WERE TWO BIG ROUNDS OF
DEBA'ATHIFICATION WE TOOK
THEM OUT IN 200 BY THE U.S.
GOVERNMENT AGAIN IN 2011
BY MALIKI, THE PRIME
MINISTER.
SO WHAT DID THAT DO AND HOW
DID THAT CONTRIBUTE TO THOSE
LEADERSHIP POSITIONS IN ISIS
BEING SERVED BY THESE FARMER
BAATHISTS.
>> THE DEBA'ATHIFICATION OF
2003 I THINK THE
CONSEQUENCES OF THAT ARE
QUITE KNOWN.
PEM KNOW THAT ABOUT 700,000
IRAQIS HAVE BEEN SERVING IN
THE ARMY, WERE SENT HOME,
THEY WERE NOT ELIGIBLE FOR
FUTURE EMPLOYMENT.
THEY KEPT THEIR GUNS BUT
THEY WEREN'T ALLOWED TO JOIN
IN THE MILITARY AGAIN AND
THAT CREATED A READY POOL OF
RECRUITS.
SO ALL THE DIFFERENT INSURGENT
GROUPS.
THE SECOND IN 2011 IS LESS
WELL-KNOWN.
AFTER THE AMERICANS LEFT,
MALIKI STARTED TO FIRE EVEN
SOME OF THE ONES THAT THEY
HAD TRIED TO REHABILITATE
REALIZING THAT IT WASN'T
SUCH A GOOD IDEA TO HAVE
THESE GUYS OUT THERE WITHOUT
JOBS, WITHOUT CONTRIBUTING
TO SOCIETY.
AND IT MEANT REALLY VERY
EASY FOR THOSE GUYS TO JUST
GO AND SIGN UP WITH ISIS
BECAUSE THEY FELT THEY HAD
NO OTHER CHOICE BUT TO FIGHT
FOR THEIR FOUGHT BECAUSE
THEY DIDN'T HAVE ANOTHER
FUTURE.
>> Sreenivasan: LIZ SLY OF
THE WASH CONTINUE POST
JOINING US VIA SKYPE, THANK
YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Sreenivasan: SIX UKRAINIAN
SOLDIERS WERE KILLED TODAY, THE
LATEST BREAKDOWN IN THE CEASE-
FIRE BETWEEN PRO-RUSSIAN
SEPARATISTS AND UKRAINIAN
GOVERNMENT FORCES.
GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS SAID FOUR
OF THE SOLDIERS DIED WHEN THEY
WERE FIRED ON BY THE REBELS NEAR
LUGANSK, AN INSURGENT
STRONGHOLD.
THE OTHER TWO DIED NEAR THE
GOVERNMENT-HELD PORT CITY OF
MARIUPOL, WHEN THEIR VEHICLE HIT
AN ANTI-TANK MINE.
INDIANA HAS IMPLEMENTED A NEEDLE
EXCHANGE PROGRAM TO TRY TO CURB
WHAT IS BELIEVED TO BE THE
LARGEST OUTBREAK OF DRUG-RELATED
HIV TRANSMISSION IN THE STATE'S
HISTORY.
GOVERNOR MIKE PENCE APPROVED THE
PLAN FOR SCOTT COUNTY IN THE
SOUTHERN PART OF THE STATE BY
SIGNING AN EMERGENCY EXECUTIVE
ORDER.
IT WILL BE IN EFFECT FOR 30
DAYS.
NEARLY 90 CASES OF HIV AMONG
DRUG USERS HAVE BEEN REPORTED
THERE.
LEGISLATION SIGNED INTO LAW BY
GOVERNOR SAM BROWNBACK WILL
ALLOW KANSANS 21 AND OLDER TO
CARRY CONCEALED WEAPONS WITHOUT
GETTING TRAINING OR PERMITS
FIRST.
THE BILL GOES INTO EFFECT JULY
SIX OTHER STATES, ARKANSAS,
ALASKA, ARIZONA, MONTANA,
WYOMING AND VERMONT, HAVE
SIMILAR LAWS ON THE BOOKS.
AND JUST DAYS AFTER INDIANA
FOUND ITSELF IN THE MIDDLE OF A
NATIONAL DEBATE ABOUT POSSIBLE
GAY DISCRIMINATION, HONEY MAID,
WHICH MAKES GRAHAM CRACKERS,
YESTERDAY BROADCAST A TELEVISION
AD FEATURING TWO GAY MEN AS
PARENTS.
THE AD AIRED DURING THE FINAL
FOUR BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
SEMIFINALS, WHICH WERE PLAYED IN
INDIANA'S CAPITAL CITY OF
INDIANAPOLIS.
WE WANTED TO SPEND A FEW MINUTES
TONIGHT TALKING ABOUT AN ASPECT
OF THE RECENTLY CONCLUDED
NUCLEAR TALKS WITH IRAN THAT YOU
MIGHT HAVE HEARD MUCH LESS
ABOUT.
WE'RE REFERRING TO THE ROLE
OTHER COUNTRIES INVOLVED IN THE
TALKS FROM WESTERN EUROPE PLAYED
IN THE NEGOTIATIONS, AND ALSO
THE ROLES PLAYED BY RUSSIA AND
CHINA.
AND ANOTHER QUESTION: WHAT WILL
THE TENTATIVE DEAL MEAN FOR ALL
OF THEM?
FOR MORE, WE ARE JOINED NOW BY
GARY SICK.
HE SERVED THE NATIONAL SECURITY
COUNCIL STAFF UNDER PRESIDENTS
FORD, CARTER AND REAGAN.
HE WAS THE PRINCIPAL WHITE HOUSE
AIDE FOR IRAN DURING THE IRANIAN
REVOLUTION AND THE HOSTAGE
CRISIS AND IS THE AUTHOR OF TWO
BOOKS ON U.S.-IRAN RELATIONS, HE
NOW TEACHES INTERNATIONAL
AFFAIRS AT COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY.
IT IS STILL CONSTRUCTED AS A
CONVERSATION BETWEEN THE
UNITED STATES AND IRAN.
AND TODAY THE NEW CYCLE IS
PRIMARILY ABOUT FACT SHEETS
AND WHAT ARE THE DIFFERENCES
BUT THERE WERE OTHER PARTIES AT
THE TABLE.
AND THEY WERE INTEGRAL TO
THIS HAPPENING.
>> IT'S A FUNNY THING
BECAUSE, WELL, THE REASON
THE U.S. IS SO IMPORTANT IS
THE U.S. HAD VETOED DEALS IN
THE PAST.
SO WITHOUT US, IT WAS NEVER
GOING TO HAPPEN.
BUT AT THE SAME TIME UNITED
STATES AS THE SORT OF LEAD
NEGOTIATORS HAD REALLY A
FOUR-PART NEGOTIATION TO GO
ON.
ONE WITH I RAN, ONE WITH THE
-- HEADS OF THE SECURITY
COUNCIL, RUSSIA, CHINA, SO
FORTH.
ONE WITH THE U.S. CONGRESS
AND ANOTHER ONE WITH
COUNTRIES LIKE ISRAEL AND
SAUDI ARABIA WHO ARE
TERRIBLY SKEPTICAL ABOUT THE
WHOLE THING.
AND KEEPING ALL OF THAT
BALANCED AT ALL TIMES WAS
REALLY PRETTY ASTONISHING.
>> Sreenivasan: SO WHAT DO
THE EUROPEAN COUNTRY, THE
U.K. AND GER MANNY GET OUT
OF THIS DEAL?
>> YOU KNOW, AN A FUNNY
THING, THIS IS KIND OF A
REVENGE ON BENJAMIN
NETANYAHU.
HE HAS FOR YEARS BEEN
SCARING EVERYBODY TO DEATH
THAT THERE WAS GOING TO BE
ANOTHER WAR IN THE MIDDLE
EAST.
THAT ISRAEL WAS GOING TO
LAUNCH A UNILATERAL ATTACK
AGAINST A RAN AND SO FORTH,
TO THE POINT WHERE ALL OF
THESE COUNTRIES SAID
ANYTHING IS BETTER THAN
HAVING ANOTHER WAR IN THE
MIDDLE EAST.
SO LET'S ACTUALLY COOPERATE
WITH EACH OTHER, PUT
SOMETHING TOGETHER THAT
WORKS, AND I THINK THAT'S
WHERE WE ARE.
AND THE FACT THAT NETANYAHU
IS UNHAPPY WITH THE RESULT
IS KIND OF IRONIC.
BUT IT'S THE REALITY OF
WHERE WE ACTUALLY HAPPEN TO
BE.
>> I DIDN'T MENTION FRANCE
IN THAT QUESTION.
BUT FRANCE SAID AS SOON AS
THE NEGOTIATIONS WERE OVER,
THEY WERE TOWING A HARDER
LINE.
WHAT DO THEY WANT OUT OF IT
SM.
>> WELL, THEY'VE BECOME A
LITTLE MORE IDEA LOGICAL IN
THE PROCESS IT WASN'T SO
MUCH THAT THEY HAVE ANYTHING
SPECIFIC TO GAIN, THAT
FRANCE WOULD GAIN THAT
GERMANY WOULD NOT OR THAT
THE BRITISH WOULD NOT.
I MEAN BASICALLY THE
EUROPEANS WERE IN THIS
TOGETHER.
IT WAS-- IT WAS, YOU KNOW,
CHAIRED BY THE HEAD OF THE
EU FOREIGN MINISTER,
BASICALLY.
AND SO THIS WAS NOT
SOMETHING THAT THEY WERE IN
IT COMPETING WITH EACH
OTHER.
BUT EACH COUNTRY WAS THERE
BECAUSE OF ITS OWN NATIONAL
INTERESTS.
I THINK THE FIRST THING WAS
THAT THEY ALL REALLY WANTED
TO AVOID ANOTHER WAR IN THE
MIDDLE EAST AND THEY SAW
THIS AS THE WAY TO DO IT.
AND THEY WERE PREPARED TO
PAY A CERTAIN PRICE FOR
THAT.
IN FACT, MOST OF THE
COUNTRIES INVOLVED HAVE PAID
A MUCH HIGHER PRICE THAN WE
HAVE.
AND BECAUSE MANY OF THEM
HAVE MUCH GREATER TRADE WITH
IRAN.
THEY HAD MORE TO LOSE.
THEIR COMPANIES HAD TO PULL
OUT.
AND THEY WEREN'T HAPPY ABOUT
IT.
BUT THEY DID IT.
AND SO THEY HAVE ACTUALLY
PAID A PRICE TO GET TO THIS
POINT.
>> SO WHAT ABOUT RUSSIA AND
CHINA?
>> WELL, RUSSIA DOESN'T
REALLY WANT A NUCLEAR ARMED
IRAN ON ITS SOUTHERN BORDER
I THINK BASICALLY WHEN YOU TALK
ABOUT WHAT COULD BE HIT,
ACTUALLY MOSCOW IS A LOT CLOSER
THAN SAY ROME.
SO IT WAS ACTUALLY-- IN
THEIR SELF-INTEREST TO MAKE
SURE THAT IRAN DIDN'T GET A
NUCLEAR WEAPON.
THOUGH I'M NOT SURE THEY
REALLY THOUGHT THAT IRAN WAS
ABOUT TO GET A NUCLEAR
WEAPON.
THEY ALSO WANTED, BOTH
COUNTRIES, I THINK, WANTED
TO KEEP THE UNITED STATES ON
THEIR SIDE.
THEY HAVE DEALS THAT THEY
WANT TO DO ON OTHER ISSUES
INCLUDING THINGS LIKE THE
CRIMEA AND YOU CRANE AND
WITH CHINA, A SERIES OF
ISSUES ABOUT HUMAN RIGHTS
AND THE SOUTH CHINA SEA.
THEY NEED TO BE ABLE TO WORK
WITH THE AMERICANS.
AND THEY ALSO KNEW THAT IN
THIS CASE YOU HAD TO WORK
WITH THE AMERICANS OR IT
DIDN'T WORK.
BASICALLY THE UNITED STATES
HAD PUT THIS COALITION
TOGETHER.
THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION,
PRESIDENT OBAMA PERSONALLY,
HAD PUT TOGETHER THE
GREATEST COALITION IN
HISTORY IN A PEACETIME
ENVIRONMENT OF PUTTING
TOGETHER SANCTIONS ON ONE
COUNTRY.
AND THAT WAS ALL HELD
TOGETHER BY THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION.
AND EVERYBODY KNEW THAT TO
UNDO THAT AND TO ACTUALLY
MAKE ANY PROGRESS YOU HAD TO
HAVE THE AMERICANS ON BOARD.
>> GARY SICK OF COLUMBIA
UNIVERSITY, THANK YOU SO
MUCH.
>> PLEASURE TO BE WITH YOU.
>> Sreenivasan: TONIGHT MARKS
THE BEGINNING OF THE END FOR THE
HIT SERIES "MAD MEN."
THE FINAL SEVEN EPISODES AIR ON
AMC.
THE POPULAR SERIES ABOUT A
MADISON AVENUE ADVERTISING
AGENCY DEBUTED IN 2007 AND
ACTRESS ELISABETH MOSS HAS BEEN
A PIVOTAL CAST MEMBER SINCE THE
BEGINNING.
BUT WITH THE SERIES COMING TO AN
END, SHE IS LOOKING TO BROADWAY
AND BEYOND TO EXTEND HER CAREER
OF PLAYING STRONG, COMPLICATED
WOMEN.
SHE SAT DOWN RECENTLY WITH THE
NEWSHOUR'S JEFFREY BROWN.
>> Brown: IN THE HIT SERIES,"
MAD MEN", PEGGY, THE SECRETARY
TURNED AD EXECUTIVE PLAYED BY
ELISABETH MOSS, IS A CHARACTER
FROM THE 1960'S WHO SOMEHOW
STILL SPEAKS TO OUR OWN TIME.
>> I ALWAYS TRY TO BE HONEST.
>> Brown: SHE'S HUGELY FLAWED,
VERY INSECURE, ALSO VERY SMART.
DEVELOPS A GREAT SENSE OF HUMOR.
REALLY GOOD AT HER JOB.
HORRIBLE AT HER PERSONAL LIFE.
>> THAT'S IT?
>> WHAT DO YOU WANT ME TO SAY?
>> THAT YOU GIVE A DAMN.
>> SHE'S-- THERE'S A LOT OF US
IN HER, YOU KNOW?
AND I THINK THAT PEOPLE IDENTIFY
WITH THAT.
>> Brown: PEOPLE SEEM TO BE
IDENTIFYING A LOT WITH ELISABETH
MOSS THESE DAYS: THE 32-YEAR-OLD
ACTRESS IS ON A MAJOR CAREER
ROLE.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Brown: AND NOW SHE'S ON
BROADWAY, PLAYING ANOTHER SMART
AND STRONG, FLAWED AND INSECURE
WOMAN: HEIDI HOLLAND IN THE
FIRST BROADWAY REVIVAL OF WENDY
WASSERSTEIN'S 1989 PULITZER
PRIZE WINNING PLAY, "THE HEIDI
CHRONICLES".
THE PLAY TAKES US THROUGH
VARIOUS EPISODES IN THE LIFE OF
ONE WOMAN, FROM THE 1960S
THROUGH THE '¡80S, AS SHE MAKES
HER WAY THROUGH THE POLITICAL
AND SOCIAL UPHEAVALS OF THE
TIMES-- SEXUAL LIBERATION AND
THE RISE OF FEMINISM, THE
DEVASTATION OF AIDS, AND MORE.
>> I MEAN, I PRACTICALLY SAID
YES BEFORE I EVEN READ THE PLAY,
WHICH I HADN'T READ.
>> Brown: WELL, I WAS WONDERING,
DID YOU KNOW IT BEFORE?
>> NO, I KNEW OF IT, BUT I
HADN'T READ IT BECAUSE I DIDN'T
GO TO DRAMA SCHOOL OR ANYTHING.
I DIDN'T GO TO COLLEGE, WHICH IS
WHERE YOU TEND TO READ THAT KIND
OF THING.
>> Brown: YOU DIDN'T GO TO DRAMA
SCHOOL.
YOU DIDN'T GO TO COLLEGE.
>> NO.
>> Brown: WHAT WERE YOU DOING?
>> "THE WEST WING"
(LAUGHTER)
>> Brown: PLAYING THE
PRESIDENT'S DAUGHTER ON "THE
WEST WING" WASN'T THE FIRST TV
GIG FOR THE THEN-17-YEAR-OLD
ACTRESS, WHO WAS BORN IN LOS
ANGELES.
>> I DON'T MIND BEING WOKEN UP.
>> Brown: MOSS HAS BEEN GROWING
UP ON SCREEN, APPEARING IN FILM
AND TELEVISION SINCE THE AGE OF
EIGHT, EARLY ROLES INCLUDED
"BABY LOUISE" IN A 1993
TELEVISION VERSION OF THE
MUSICAL "GYPSY."
>> Brown: AS WELL AS '¡POLLY',
THE BURN VICTIM IN THE 1999
FILM, "GIRL, INTERRUPTED."
>> I FEEL VERY MUSICAL TODAY.
>> PETER, YOU NEED A GIRLFRIEND.
>> Brown: IN "HEIDI," MOSS SAYS,
SHE'S LATCHED ONTO ANOTHER
"EVERY-WOMAN."
>> I THINK THERE'S A LOT OF ME
IN HER.
I THINK A LOT OF WOMEN CAN SEE
THEMSELVES IN HER.
SHE'S NOT PERFECT.
SHE'S COMPLICATED.
VERY SELF-AWARE, VERY SELF-
DEPRECATING.
AND SAD A LOT OF THE TIME.
>> Brown: "THE HEIDI CHRONICLES"
ORIGINALLY OPENED OFF-BROADWAY
IN 1988 WITH ACTRESS JOAN ALLEN
IN THE TITLE ROLE.
IT QUICKLY MOVED TO BROADWAY
WHERE IT WENT ON TO WIN THE TONY
AWARD FOR BEST PLAY.
IT'S CONTINUED TO BE A POPULAR
PRODUCTION ON REGIONAL AND
COLLEGE STAGES FOR ITS HONEST
DISCUSSION ABOUT WHETHER WOMEN
CAN "HAVE IT ALL" AS THEY
STRUGGLE TO NAVIGATE PERSONAL
RELATIONSHIPS, PROFESSIONAL
ASPIRATIONS, AND MOTHERHOOD.
JULIE SALAMON IS AUTHOR OF "
WENDY AND THE LOST BOYS", A
BIOGRAPHY OF PLAYWRIGHT WENDY
WASSERSTEIN, WHO DIED IN 2006.
>> EVERYTHING THAT HAPPENS IN
THAT PLAY WAS SO CLOSE TO WHAT
WAS GOING ON IN WENDY
WASSERSTEIN'S LIFE, WHICH
HAPPENED TO REFLECT WHAT WAS
GOING ON WITH A WHOLE GENERATION
OF WOMEN.
>> SUSIE, DO YOU EVER FEEL THAT
WHAT MAKES YOU A PERSON IS ALSO
WHAT KEEPS YOU FROM BEING A
PERSON?
>> Brown: CAN A WOMAN HAVE IT
ALL, CAREER, FAMILY, CHILDREN,
MARRIAGE, ETC.?
>> RIGHT.
WELL, SOMEBODY ONCE SAID TO ME,"
YOU MAY BE ABLE TO HAVE IT ALL,
BUT NOT ALL AT THE SAME TIME."
AND I THINK AT THE TIME WENDY
WAS WRITING THIS, YOU KNOW, THE
WOMEN'S MOVEMENT HAD GONE FROM,
SAY IN THE '¡70S, WHERE WOMEN
WERE SUPPOSED TO BE VERY FOCUSED
ON THEIR CAREERS AND JOBS AND
EQUALITY, AND THEN ALL OF A
SUDDEN IT FLIPPED IN THE MID-
'80s.
IT'S LIKE, 'YES, YOU'RE SUPPOSED
TO DO ALL THAT AND RAISE PERFECT
CHILDREN WHO GO TO THE BEST
SCHOOLS AND ARE FANTASTIC.'
AND I THINK THOSE WERE THE
THINGS THAT WENDY WASSERSTEIN
WAS GRAPPLING WITH.
>> I DON'T BLAME ANY OF US.
WE'RE ALL CONCERNED,
INTELLIGENT, GOOD WOMEN.
>> Brown: ELISABETH MOSS SAYS IT
WAS A BIG SPEECH IN THE SECOND
ACT, WHEN HEIDI HOLLAND HAS BEEN
ASKED TO SPEAK AT HER HIGH
SCHOOL ALMA MATER THAT HELPED
HER FIND HER WAY INTO THE
CHARACTER.
IT'S A SPEECH QUESTIONING
WHETHER OR NOT SHE MADE THE
RIGHT DECISIONS IN HER PERSONAL
AND PROFESSIONAL LIFE.
>> I THOUGHT THE POINT WAS, WE
WERE ALL IN THIS TOGETHER.
>> IT'S A BEAUTIFUL SPEECH.
I THINK THAT THIS FEELING OF--
AND ESPECIALLY OF THIS
GENERATION OF THAT "I THOUGHT WE
WERE HAVING THIS THING TOGETHER.
I THOUGHT WE WERE NOT MAKING
CHOICES TOGETHER.
AND SO I DID THAT.
AND NOW, I'M ALONE."
AND SHE FEELS, AS SHE SAYS, SHE
FEELS STRANDED.
>> Brown: MOSS, FROM A LATER
GENERATION, SAYS THE "HAVE IT
ALL" ISSUE STILL RESONATES FOR
HER.
>> I MEAN, THE THING THAT I FIND
MOST INTERESTING ABOUT THAT
PHRASE IS THAT MEN ARE NEVER
ASKED IT.
AND BECAUSE MEN ARE NEVER
QUESTIONED WHETHER THEY CAN HAVE
IT ALL, THEY JUST CAN.
>> Brown: AND YET YOU DON'T, DO
YOU THINK THINGS HAVE CHANGED
THAT MUCH, OR NOT SO MUCH?
>> I DON'T THINK IT'S THAT BLACK
AND WHITE.
I THINK IT'S VERY GRAY, AS ALL
THINGS ARE.
THERE'S JUST SO MANY MORE WAYS
THAT YOU CAN GO OR NOT GO, WHICH
IS HOW I THINK WE'VE DEFINITELY
IMPROVED.
BUT OBVIOUSLY THERE ARE STILL
THINGS THAT RESONATE.
THERE IS STILL A CLOCK THAT
STARTS TICKING AS A WOMAN, WHEN
YOU GET TO A CERTAIN AGE.
THERE NOTHING ANYONE CAN DO
ABOUT THAT.
THERE IS STILL TREMENDOUS
PROBLEMS WITH EQUAL PAY FOR
WOMEN.
>> Brown: THOSE SAME ISSUES, OF
COURSE, HAVE PLAYED OUT IN MOSS'
CHARACTER, PEGGY OLSON, IN "MAD
MEN."
>> WHAT THE HELL DO I KNOW ABOUT
BEING A MOM?
I JUST TURNED 30, DON.
>> Brown: DO YOU SEE A
CONNECTION BETWEEN PEGGY AND
HEIDI?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
ABSOLUTELY.
BUT I SEE A CONNECTION BETWEEN
BOTH OF THEM, AND ALL WOMEN, AND
MYSELF, YOU KNOW?
I ALWAYS THOUGHT PEGGY WAS THE
EVERY-WOMAN.
I ALWAYS THOUGHT THAT SHE WAS
THE ONE WHO IS-- YOU COULD
IDENTIFY WITH, YOU KNOW, AS A
WOMAN OF ANY AGE.
AND I THINK THAT HEIDI IS THE
SAME WAY IN THAT SENSE.
THEY'RE VERY DIFFERENT PEOPLE
THOUGH.
>> Brown: HAVE YOU EVER THOUGHT
ABOUT WHAT WOULD HAVE HAPPENED
TO HER THROUGH TIME?
>> TO PEGGY?
>> Brown: YEAH.
>> YES.
>> Brown: YEAH, AND?
>> IT WOULD BE DIFFICULT TO SAY
WITHOUT-- SAYING THINGS THAT I
CAN'T SAY ABOUT THE LAST SEASON.
SPECULATING ABOUT WHAT HAPPENED
TO HER IS LIKE-- WELL, WE KNOW
WHAT HAPPENED TO THOSE WOMEN,
YOU KNOW?
THEY CONTINUED TO WORK.
AND SOMETIMES THEY GOT MARRIED.
AND SOMETIMES THEY DIDN'T.
SOMETIMES THEY HAD KIDS.
SOMETIMES THEY DIDN'T.
AND-- THEY BECAME THE WOMEN WHO
WERE OUR BOSSES.
THEY BECAME THE WOMEN WHO FORGED
THE PATH FOR ALL THE OTHER
LADIES IN ADVERTISING NOW.
>> SEE, THIS IS WHY I DON'T LIKE
WORKING WITH WOMEN- YOU HAVE NO
SENSE OF HUMOR.
>> YOU'RE FIRED.
>> Brown: AND WHERE DOES
ELISABETH MOSS HOPE TO SEE
HERSELF, POST-PEGGY OLSON?
>> NO, GET YOUR THINGS.
>> I WOULD LIKE TO JUST BE ABLE
TO KEEP WORKING AND KEEP WORKING
WITH PEOPLE THAT I ADMIRE.
I LOVE FILM, TELEVISION AND
THEATER.
SO I WOULD LOVE TO DO ALL THREE.
IF I COULD JUST KEEP DOING THAT,
THAT WOULD BE A PRETTY GOOD
LIFE.
>> Sreenivasan: THE FINAL SEVEN
EPISODES OF MAD MEN WILL BEGIN
AIRING TONIGHT ON AMC; '¡THE
HEIDI CHRONICLES,' IS SCHEDULED
TO RUN ON BROADWAY UNTIL AUGUST.
TAKE A BEHIND-THE-SCENES VIDEO
TOUR OF THE MAD MEN EXHIBIT AT
THE MUSEUM OF THE MOVING IMAGE
IN NEW YORK CITY.
VISIT AT facebook.com/newshour.
>> Sreenivasan: WHEN RIO DE
JANEIRO WAS AWARDED NEXT
SUMMER'S OLYMPIC GAMES BACK IN
2009, THE ORGANIZERS OF THE
GAMES MADE A PROMISE, TO CLEAN
UP THE TRASH AND SEWAGE IN THE
NOTORIOUSLY POLLUTED GUANABARA
BAY, WHERE SAILING AND WIND-
SURFING EVENTS WILL TAKE PLACE.
BUT WITH THE GAMES FAST
APPROACHING, RIO'S MAYOR
ACKNOWLEDGED RECENTLY THAT THE
PROMISED 80% CLEANUP WOULD NOT
BE COMPLETED IN TIME.
IN THE LAST SIX YEARS, RIO HAS
SPENT MILLIONS OF DOLLARS ON THE
CLEANUP.
DESPITE THAT, SAILORS WHO
PARTICIPATED IN TEST EVENTS LAST
SUMMER SAID THEY CAME UPON A
FLOATING SOFA AND A DEAD DOG IN
THE WATER.
AND EARLIER THIS YEAR,
INSPECTORS FOUND THOUSANDS OF
DEAD FISH WASHED UP ON ITS
SHORES OF THE BAY, ABOUT SEVEN
MILES FROM WHERE THE SAILING
COMPETITIONS WILL TAKE PLACE.
RIO OFFICIALS ARE INSISTING THAT
THE OLYMPIC EVENT ROUTE, WHICH
WILL TAKE PLACE IN A LESS
POLLUTED AREA OF THE BAY, WILL
BE SAFE.
THE GOAL NOW IS TO HAVE THE
SAILING LANES CLEANED BY AUGUST
FOR THE NEXT TEST EVENT.
AN ART EXHIBITION CALLED ACHADOS
DA GUANABARA WHICH TRANSLATES TO
"FOUND IN GUANABARA" IS TRYING
TO CALL ATTENTION TO THE
PROBLEM, BY PUTTING TRASH FROM
THE BAY ON DISPLAY IN A SHOPPING
MALL.
THE OBJECTS IN THE EXHIBITION
HAVE SYMBOLIC "PRICE TAGS" TO
REPRESENT THE ENVIRONMENTAL COST
OF THE WASTE.
>> (translated): THERE IS A
BIG PROBLEM IN TERMS OF
EDUCATING THE POPULATION THAT
WATER IS NOT RUBBISH.
>> Sreenivasan: IT MAY TAKE SOME
CONVINCING, IT IS ESTIMATED THAT
70% OF UNTREATED SEWAGE FROM
RIO, INCLUDING ITS SURROUNDING
MUNICIPALITIES, FLOWS INTO THE
GUANABARA BAY.
THIS PAST DECEMBER, SPECIALISTS
FROM A RIO HEALTH RESEARCH
INSTITUTE ANNOUNCED THEY FOUND A
DRUG-RESISTANT "SUPER BACTERIA"
IN THE WATERS WHERE THE OLYMPIC
SAILING EVENTS WILL BE HELD.
DESPITE THAT, CARLOS NUZMAN,
HEAD OF THE BRAZILIAN OLYMPIC
COMMITTEE SAID RECENTLY "THE
AREA OF COMPETITION FOR THE
OLYMPIC GAMES WILL BE READY."
SOME MORE NEWS, THE
INTERNATIONAL RED CROSS SAYS
IT WILL BEGIN A HUMANITARIAN
MISSION TO YEMEN TOMORROW.
MORE THAN 500 PEOPLE HAVE BEEN
KILLED THERE IN THE PAST TWO
WEEKS.
ONE WAS A 45-YEAR-OLD YEMENI
AMERICAN.
THINGS GOT ROWDY AFTER THE
PREVIOUSLY UNDEFEATED KENTUCKY
WILDCATS WERE BEATEN BY
WISCONSIN WITH IN THE NCAA
BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT SEMIFINALS
LAST NIGHT, POLICE ARRESTED MORE
THAN 30 PEOPLE IN LEXINGTON FOR
PUBLIC INTOXICATION AND
DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
AND TONIGHT IS THE START OF THE
2015 MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL
SEASON.
THE ST. LOUIS CARDINAL PLAY
CUBS IN CHICAGO.
THE CUBS ARE TRYING FOR THEIR
FIRST CHAMPIONSHIP IN 107
YEARS.
ON PBS NEWSHOUR MONDAY, A
NEW REPORT ON WHAT WENT WRONG
WITH ROLLING STONE'S REPORTING
ON AN ALLEGED U.V.A. RAPE CASE.
THAT IS IT FOR THIS EDITION
OF PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN, THANKS FOR
WATCHING.